<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->

[_metadata_:tag]:- #approach-model
[_metadata_:tag]:- #status-method
[_metadata_:tag]:- #language-java

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

# [A multi-model based microservices identification approach](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sysarc.2021.102200)

## Abstract

Microservices are hailed for their capabilities to tackle the challenge of
breaking monolithic business systems down into small, cohesive, and
loosely-coupled services. Indeed, these systems are neither easy to maintain nor
to replace undermining organizations’ efforts to cope with user’s changing needs
and governments’ complex regulations. Microservices constitute an architectural
style for developing a new generation of systems as a suite of services that,
although they are separate, engage in collaborative execution and communication
sessions. However, microservices success depends, among many other things, on
the existence of an approach that would automatically identify the necessary
microservices according to organizations’ requirements. In this paper, we
present such an approach and demonstrate its technical doability in the context
of a case study, Bicing, for renting bikes. Some salient features of this
approach are business processes as input for the identification needs, three
models known as control, data, and semantic to capture dependencies between
these processes’ activities, and, finally, a collaborative clustering technique
that recommends potential microservices. Conducted experiments in the context of
Bicing clearly indicate that our approach outperforms similar ones for
microservices identification and reinforce the important role of business
processes in this identification. The approach constitutes a major milestone
towards a better architectural style for future microservices systems.

## References

- [Microservices Identification Through Interface Analysis](./microservices-identification-through-interface-analysis.md)
