<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->

[_metadata_:tag]:- #approach-model
[_metadata_:tag]:- #status-algorithm
[_metadata_:tag]:- #language-agnostic

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

# [A Novel Method for Identifying Microservices by Considering Quality Expectations and Deployment Constraints](https://doi.org/10.1142/S021819402250019X)

## Abstract

Nowadays, microservice architecture has become a dominant software development
and deployment paradigm. Decomposing a system into loosely coupled, highly
cohesive, and fine-grained microservices while meeting various technical
constraints and implementing business capabilities is particularly important for
microservice system (MS) designers. When an MS has a large number of
functionalities and complex interconnections, it is a big challenge to identify
microservices solely based on the experience of MS designers. We propose a
structured and automated microservice identification method to decompose a
system into appropriate microservices for this challenge. We model a system as
unified modeling language (UML) class and sequence diagrams. In the
identification phase, we take into account not only the traditional
coupling-related criteria but also the quality expectation and deployment
constraints, both of which have not yet been fully concerned in previous
studies. Based on the criteria, a microservice identification algorithm using
the clustering technique is designed. A case study of elderly care services
illustrates the identification process. Experiments are conducted to evaluate
and compare the proposed method against state-of-the-art methods. Results
indicate that the proposed method significantly outperforms those compared from
the literature.

## References

- [Microservices Identification Through Interface Analysis](./microservices-identification-through-interface-analysis.md)

- [Extraction of Microservices from Monolithic Software Architectures](./extraction-of-microservices-from-monolithic-software-architectures.md)
