<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->

[_metadata_:tag]:- #other-case-study

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

# [Microservices Migration in Industry: Intentions, Strategies, and Challenges](https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSME.2019.00081)

## Abstract

To remain competitive in a fast changing environment, many companies started to
migrate their legacy applications towards a Microservices architecture. Such
extensive migration processes require careful planning and consideration of
implications and challenges likewise. In this regard, hands-on experiences from
industry practice are still rare. To fill this gap in scientific literature, we
contribute a qualitative study on intentions, strategies, and challenges in the
context of migrations to Microservices. We investigated the migration process of
14 systems across different domains and sizes by conducting 16 in-depth
interviews with software professionals from 10 companies. Along with a summary
of the most important findings, we present a separate discussion of each case.
As primary migration drivers, maintainability and scalability were identified.
Due to the high complexity of their legacy systems, most companies preferred a
rewrite using current technologies over splitting up existing code bases. This
was often caused by the absence of a suitable decomposition approach. As such,
finding the right service cut was a major technical challenge, next to building
the necessary expertise with new technologies. Organizational challenges were
especially related to large, traditional companies that simultaneously
established agile processes. Initiating a mindset change and ensuring smooth
collaboration between teams were crucial for them. Future research on the
evolution of software systems can in particular profit from the individual cases
presented.

## References

- [Architectural Patterns for Microservices: A Systematic Mapping Study](./architectural-patterns-for-microservices-a-systematic-mapping-study.md)

- [Architecting with microservices: A systematic mapping study](./architecting-with-microservices-a-systematic-mapping-study.md)

- [Microservices migration patterns](./microservices-migration-patterns.md)

- [From Monolith to Microservices: A Classification of Refactoring Approaches](./from-monolith-to-microservices-a-classification-of-refactoring-approaches.md)

- [Extraction of Microservices from Monolithic Software Architectures](./extraction-of-microservices-from-monolithic-software-architectures.md)

- [Service Candidate Identification from Monolithic Systems Based on Execution Traces](./service-candidate-identification-from-monolithic-systems-based-on-execution-traces.md)
