<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->

[_metadata_:tag]:- #approach-model
[_metadata_:tag]:- #status-method
[_metadata_:tag]:- #language-agnostic

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

# [A Prescriptive Model for Migration to Microservices Based on SDLC Artifacts](https://doi.org/10.13052/jwe1540-9589.20312)

## Abstract

Microservices architectural style is gaining popularity in industry and is being
widely adopted by large corporations like Amazon, Netflix, Spotify, eBay, and
many more. Several other organizations are also preferring to migrate their
existing enterprise scale applications to microservices architecture.
Researchers have proposed various approaches for microservices decomposition to
be used in migrating or rebuilding a monolithic application to microservices.
Applying any available approach to an existing monolithic application is not a
straightforward decision; thus, there is a need for guidelines that assist in
the migration process. There are various challenges in a migration process
because different migration approaches use different sets of input data to
identify microservices. Since the available migration techniques are not
structured, logically, selection of an appropriate migration strategy is a
difficult decision for any system architect. So, it is a recurrent open research
question â€“ which migration technique should be adopted to get microservices for
a legacy monolithic application? This paper addresses this research challenge by
examining existing approaches for microservices migration and groups them based
on software development life cycle (SDLC) artifacts. Our research also proposes
a microservices prescriptive model (MPM) from the existing prominent
microservice migration techniques. This model provides recommendation (1) for
refactoring an existing legacy system to microservices, and (2) for new
microservices development projects. Our study also helps in gaining more insight
about greenfield and brownfield development approaches in microservices
applications. Moreover, researchers and practitioners of the field can benefit
from this model to further validate their migration approaches based on the
available system artifacts.

## References

- [Migrating Web Applications from Monolithic Structure to Microservices Architecture](./migrating-web-applications-from-monolithic-structure-to-microservices-architecture.md)

- [An automatic extraction approach: transition to microservices architecture from monolithic application](./an-automatic-extraction-approach-transition-to-microservices-architecture-from-monolithic-application.md)

- [Extraction of Microservices from Monolithic Software Architectures](./extraction-of-microservices-from-monolithic-software-architectures.md)
