<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->

[_metadata_:tag]:- #other-case-study

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

# [Modernization of Monolithic Legacy Applications towards a Microservice Architecture with ExplorViz](https://oceanrep.geomar.de/id/eprint/48007/)

## Abstract

With the rapid advance of the digitization in nearly every branch of industry,
the scope and complexity of required software systems have reached new heights.
In order to keep up and adapt to the ever-changing requirements of the
fast-moving markets, it is often not enough to only rely on state-of-the-art
technologies when developing software applications. Additionally, software
developers have to adjust their development process for staying competitive. As
a matter of fact, a monolithic software system, which was and still is a popular
architecture style among software developers, tends to struggle with meeting
these standards. Especially legacy software monoliths suffer from their over the
time convoluted and tightly coupled inner structure. Their often outdated
technology stack as well as their cumbersome deployment and delivery process
pose a great risk for successful maintenance and further development.
Consequently, within the last years, companies have been extensively investing
in modernizing the software architecture and development processes of their
products. By moving away from software monoliths towards the emerging
microservice architecture style, an agile and robust software system with a
compatible development process can be realized. However, this modernization can
be highly challenging from a practical point of view. Available software
solutions, which aim at supporting the restructuring of software monoliths into
microservices, often do not satisfy the arising needs of the developers. While
these products offer numerous static analysis functionalities, dynamic analysis
aspects are mostly missing. Yet, especially a dynamic analysis can provide
invaluable information about overlooked characteristics of the software system.
In this thesis, we investigate the beneficial impact of the live trace
visualization tool ExplorViz when it comes to supporting developers during the
software modernization process. Therefore, we combine the dynamic analysis
toolkit of ExplorViz with commonly used static analysis tools for discovering a
feasible microservice architecture within the monolithic online lottery
application in|FOCUS. Based on relevant research results and fundamental
domain-driven design concepts, a well-structured software modernization process
is presented and executed. Furthermore, we exploit the self-contained systems
architecture style as an intermediate step towards a microservice architecture.
After discussing opportunities and challenges that are encountered during this
modernization endeavor, we evaluate the supporting features of ExplorViz. To
this end, a questionnaire containing qualitative open-ended questions is
developed and used for conducting a guided interview with the software
developers of the in|FOCUS application. Besides providing critical feedback on
the current development state of ExplorViz, in particular its capabilities to
support software modernization process, this evaluation gives rise to possible
future development ideas for the live trace visualization tool.

## References

- [Microservices Identification Through Interface Analysis](./microservices-identification-through-interface-analysis.md)
