<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->

[_metadata_:tag]:- #approach-multiple
[_metadata_:tag]:- #status-method
[_metadata_:tag]:- #language-agnostic

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

# [On the Performance and Adoption of Search-Based Microservice Identification with toMicroservices](https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSME46990.2020.00060)

## Abstract

The expensive maintenance of legacy systems leads companies to migrate such
systems to microservice architectures. This migration requires the
identification of system's legacy parts to become microservices. However, the
successful identification of microservices, which are promising to be adoptable
in practice, requires the simultaneous satisfaction of many criteria, such as
coupling, cohesion, reuse and communication overhead. Search-based microservice
identification has been recently investigated to address this problem. However,
state-of-the-art search-based approaches are limited as they only consider one
or two criteria (namely cohesion and coupling), possibly not fulfilling the
practical needs of developers. To overcome these limitations, we propose
toMicroservices, a many-objective search-based approach that considers five
criteria, the most cited by practitioners in recent studies. Our approach was
evaluated in a real-life industrial legacy system undergoing a microservice
migration process. The performance of toMicroservices was quantitatively
compared to a baseline. We also gathered qualitative evidence based on
developers' perceptions, who judged the adoptability of the recommended
microservices. The results show that our approach is both: (i) very similar to
the most recent proposed approach on optimizing the traditional criteria of
coupling and cohesion, but (ii) much better when taking into account all the
five criteria. Finally, most of the microservice candidates were considered
adoptable by practitioners.

## References

- [An automatic extraction approach: transition to microservices architecture from monolithic application](./an-automatic-extraction-approach-transition-to-microservices-architecture-from-monolithic-application.md)

- [Extraction of Microservices from Monolithic Software Architectures](./extraction-of-microservices-from-monolithic-software-architectures.md)
