<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->

[_metadata_:tag]:- #other-framework

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

# [How to strangle systematically: an approach and case study for the continuous evolution of monoliths to microservices](http://doi.org/10.18419/opus-12078)

## Abstract

In todayâ€™s enterprise IT, a growing number of applications are being developed
based on microservice architectures to meet enterprise requirements for highly
scaled, highly available and resilient systems running in cloud environments.
However, monolithic architectures have been the traditional way of developing
applications for many years, which results in IT environments still consisting
of applications based on these types of architectures. To overcome the
limitations of these monolithic architectures, microservice migrations are
performed with the goal of gradually decomposing the monolith into independent
services at granular levels. In order to achieve this process, different
decomposition approaches are presented in various publications, often focusing
only on the technical aspects of a microservice migration. However, during this
long-term process, various factors occur on different dimensions that are not
only technical in nature. These non-functional factors are often not considered
in existing publications. This leaves software engineers in need of a systematic
migration guide on how to proceed with a continuous migration that also takes
into account the decision-making processes based on the factors that influence
the migration process. To address this lack on methodological guidance, this
work provides a systematic approach for a continuous and gradual evolution of
monolith to microservices based on the strangler pattern. The approach is based
on interviews with software engineers and project managers who have participated
in microservice migrations. Based on these experiences, the influencing factors
that occur during the various steps of a migration are identified. Moreover, the
decisions made based on these factors are considered in order to provide a
decision-making guidance.

## References

- [An automatic extraction approach: transition to microservices architecture from monolithic application](./an-automatic-extraction-approach-transition-to-microservices-architecture-from-monolithic-application.md)
