<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->

[_metadata_:tag]:- #approach-domain
[_metadata_:tag]:- #status-method
[_metadata_:tag]:- #language-agnostic

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

# [Domain Metric Driven Decomposition of Data-Intensive Applications](https://doi.org/10.1109/ISSREW51248.2020.00071)

## Abstract

The microservices architectural style is picking up more and more momentum in IT
industry for the development of systems as loosely coupled, collaborating
services. Companies that undergo the migration of their own applications have
aspirations such as increasing maintainability and the scale of operation. Such
a process is worthwhile but not easy, since it should ensure atomic improvements
to the overall architecture for each migration step. Furthermore, the systematic
evaluation of migration steps becomes cumbersome without sensible optimization
metrics that take into account performance and scalability under expected
operational conditions. Recent lines of research recognize this task as
challenging, especially in data-intensive applications where known approaches
based, for instance, on Domain Driven Design may not be adequate. In this paper,
we introduce an approach to evaluate a migration in an iterative way and
recognize whether it represents an improvement in terms of performance and
scalability. The approach leverages a Domain Metric-based analysis to
quantitatively evaluate alternative architectures. We exemplified the envisioned
approach on a data-intensive application case study in the domain of smart
mobility. Preliminary results from our controlled experiments show the
effectiveness of our approach to support systematic and automated evaluation of
migration processes.

## References

- [An automatic extraction approach: transition to microservices architecture from monolithic application](./an-automatic-extraction-approach-transition-to-microservices-architecture-from-monolithic-application.md)
